			CASE STUDY FOR DATABSE DESIGN OF A JOURNAL PUBLICATION


The Journal of E-commerce Research Knowledge is a prestigious information system research
journal. It uses a peer-review process to select manuscripts for publication. Only about 10
percent of the manuscripts submitted to the Journal are accepted for publication. 
A new issue of the Journal is published each quarter. For each Journal, a group of editors work 
to control the Journal. 

We need to keep information about the editors, such as full name, mobile number,
and years of expertise.

Unsolicited manuscripts are submitted by authors. 

When a manuscript is received, the editor
will assign the manuscript a number and record some basic information about sit in the system.
The title of the manuscript, the date it was received, and a manuscript status of “received” are
entered. (It is assumed that an editor can work on multiple manuscripts, but a manuscript is woked on by 
only one editor)

Information about the author(s) is also recorded. 

For each author, the author’s name,
mailing address, e-mail address, and affiliation (school or company for which the author works)
are recorded. 

Every manuscript must have an author. Only authors who have submitted
manuscripts are kept in the system. It is typical for a manuscript to have several authors. A
single author may have submitted many different manuscripts to the Journal (Many to Many). Additionally,
when a manuscript has multiple authors, it is important to record the order in which the authors
are listed in the manuscript credits. 

At her earliest convenience, the editor will briefly review
the topic of the manuscript to ensure that the manuscript’s contents fall within the scope of the
Journal. If the content is not within the scope of the Journal, the manuscript’s status is changed
to “rejected” and the author is notified via e-mail. 

If the content is within the scope of the Journal,
then the editor selects three or more reviewers to review the manuscript. 

Reviewers work for
other companies or universities and read manuscripts to ensure the scientific validity of the
manuscripts. 

For each reviewer, the system records a reviewer number, name, e-mail address,
affiliation, and areas of interest. Areas of interest are predefined areas of expertise that the
reviewer has specified. An area of interest is identified by an IS code and includes a description
(e.g., IS2003 is the code for “database modeling”). A reviewer can have many areas of interest,
and an area of interest can be associated with many reviewers. All reviewers must specify at
least one area of interest. It is unusual, but it is possible, to have an area of interest for which
the Journal has no reviewers. The editor will change the status of the manuscript to “under
review” and record which reviewers the manuscript was sent to and the date on which it was
sent to each reviewer. A reviewer will typically receive several manuscripts to review each
year, although new reviewers may not have received any manuscripts yet.
The reviewers will read the manuscript at their earliest convenience and provide feedback to
the editor regarding the manuscript. 
The feedback from each reviewer includes ID and rating
the manuscript on a 10-point scale for appropriateness, clarity, methodology, and contribution
to the field, as well as a recommendation for publication (accept or reject). The editor will record
all of this information in the system for each review received from each reviewer and the date
that the feedback was received. Once all of the reviewers have provided their evaluation of the
manuscript, the editor will decide whether or not to publish the manuscript. If the editor decides
to publish the manuscript, the manuscript’s status is changed to “accepted,” and the date of
acceptance for the manuscript is recorded. If the manuscript is not to be published, the status
is changed to “rejected.” Once a manuscript has been accepted for publication, it must be
scheduled. 
For each issue of the Journal, the publication period (fall, winter, spring, or
summer), publication year, volume, and number are recorded. An issue will contain many
manuscripts, although the issue may be created in the system before it is known which
manuscripts will go in that issue. An accepted manuscript appears in only one issue of the
Journal. 
Each manuscript goes through a typesetting process that formats the content and it
includes format name font style, font size, line spacing, justification, etc.). Once the manuscript
has been typeset, the number of pages that the manuscript will occupy is recorded in the
system. The editor will then make decisions about which issue each accepted manuscript will
appear in and the order of manuscripts within each issue. The order and the beginning page
number for each manuscript must be stored in the system. Once the manuscript has been
scheduled for an issue, the status of the manuscript is changed to “scheduled.” Once an issue
is published, the print date for the issue is recorded, and the statuses of all of the manuscripts
in that issue are changed to “published.”.